# $File: //member/autrijus/Beer-Admin/lib/Beer/MakeMaker.pod $ $Author: autrijus $
# $Revision: #1 $ $Change: 4476 $ $DateTime: 2003/02/28 15:58:00 $

=head1 NAME

Beer::MakeMaker - Extension Rules for ExtUtils::MakeMaker

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.01 of Beer::MakeMaker, released
February 28, 2003.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

In your F<Makefile.PL>:

    use inc::Beer;
    WriteMakefile();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is a wrapper around B<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>.  It exports
two functions: C<prompt> (an alias for C<ExtUtils::MakeMaker::prompt>)
and C<WriteMakefile>.

The C<WriteMakefile> function will pass on keyword/value pair functions
to C<ExtUtils::MakeMaker::WriteMakefile>. The required parameters
C<NAME> and C<VERSION> (or C<VERSION_FROM>) are not necessary if
it can find them unambiguously in your code.

=head1 CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

This module also adds some Configuration parameters of its own:

=head2 NAME

The NAME parameter is required by B<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>. If you have a
single module in your distribution, or if the module name indicated by
the current directory exists under F<lib/>, this module will use the
guessed package name as the default.

If this module can't find a default for C<NAME> it will ask you to specify
it manually.

=head2 VERSION

B<ExtUtils::MakeMaker> requires either the C<VERSION> or C<VERSION_FROM>
parameter.  If this module can guess the package's C<NAME>, it will attempt
to parse the C<VERSION> from it.

If this module can't find a default for C<VERSION> it will ask you to
specify it manually.

=head1 MAKE TARGETS

B<ExtUtils::MakeMaker> provides you with many useful C<make> targets. A
C<make> B<target> is the word you specify after C<make>, like C<test>
for C<make test>. Some of the more useful targets are:

=over 4

=item * all

This is the default target. When you type C<make> it is the same as
entering C<make all>. This target builds all of your code and stages it
in the C<blib> directory.

=item * test

Run your distribution's test suite.

=item * install

Copy the contents of the C<blib> directory into the appropriate
directories in your Perl installation.

=item * dist

Create a distribution tarball, ready for uploading to CPAN or sharing
with a friend.

=item * clean distclean purge

Remove the files created by C<perl Makefile.PL> and C<make>.

=item * help

Same as typing C<perldoc ExtUtils::MakeMaker>.

=back

This module modifies the behaviour of some of these targets, depending
on your requirements, and also adds the following targets to your Makefile:

=over 4

=item * cpurge

Just like purge, except that it also deletes the files originally added
by this module itself.

=item * chelp

Short cut for typing C<perldoc Beer::Admin>.

=item * distsign

Short cut for typing C<cpansign -s>, for B<Module::Signature> users to
sign the distribution before release.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Beer::Admin>, L<CPAN::MakeMaker>, L<CPAN::MakeMaker-Philosophy>

=head1 AUTHORS

Autrijus Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>

Based on original works by Brian Ingerson E<lt>INGY@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2003 by Autrijus Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>.
Copyright (c) 2002. Brian Ingerson. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

See L<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

=cut

# Local variables:
# c-indentation-style: bsd
# c-basic-offset: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
